# Ethereum


Multivariable calculus is a broad topic with many key concepts. It was developed from after the invention of calculus by Newton all the way up to the 20th century with the invention of Vector calculus by Willard Gibbs and Oliver Heaviside. Multivariable calculus can be split up into 4 key theorems, Gradient Theorem, Green’s Theorem, Stokes’ Theorem and the Divergence Theorem. When they come together, these theorems show the essence of multivariable calculus. Today we will be talking about these 4 theorems. 

The Gradient theorem states that the line integral of a gradient field can be calculated by evaluating the scalar field at the endpoints of a curve. It is useful for defining conservative forces, forces that depend not on the path an object takes, but its endpoints. This formula has many applications in math and physics and is one of the key ideas to understanding the other theorems. In the big picture, this theorem is a generalization of the second fundamental theorem of calculus to any curve in a plane or space rather than the real line.

Green’s theorem states for a positively oriented, piecewise smooth, simple closed curve in a plane C, where D is the region bounded by C, the line integral around the closed curve is equal to the double integral of the curl of a vector field over the region enclosed by that curve. In simple terms, it means the total circulation around a boundary is equivalent to the sum of all the microscopic circulation inside the region it encloses. This allows you to calculate a line integral by instead calculating a double integral or vice versa. This is the two dimensional special case of Stoke's theorem, and in one dimension, it is the fundamental theorem of calculus. In the three dimensions, it is equivalent to the divergence theorem.

Now that we have established the relationship between the theorems of calculus, I will discuss the Stokes’ and Divergence theorems. Interestingly, A question for the proof of Stokes' theorem was actually given in a Cambridge University examination in 1854 by George Stokes. As a highly complex proof, it is unlikely that any of the students proved the theorem. The Stokes’ Theorem states that the surface integral of the curl of a function over a surface bounded by a closed surface is equal to the line integral of the particular vector function around that surface. This theorem is useful because it relates the integral of the curl of the vector to the line integral of the vector field around the boundary of the surface. This means in cases where it is easy to calculate one, we can use it to find the other. This theorem has applications in electromagnetism and physics.

The Divergence theorem, sometimes called Gauss’s theorem or Ostrogradsky’s theorem, is the 3d version of the Green’s theorem. It can be intuitively explained using an example of liquid flow. Imagine a sphere. Inside it are sources of water and sinks of water. The sum of all the sources of water gives the net flux out of the region. This makes this theorem the easiest to understand. This theorem also has applications in electromagnetism, fluid dynamics and physics.
